# Ruby on Rails Guides

First let's create a directory where we'll be storing all the code for this guide.

`mkdir rails-guide`

`cd rails-guide`

Now, `git init`

Next make a github repo and add this repo as the remote to your local directory. If you need help on how to do this. Read through this short how-to on using git. [Git Workflow](https://gist.github.com/jciancio/d051dc50b1e6a839fdd8)

You will be submitting the link to this repository when done with the assignment.

### Getting Started Guide

The Rails Guides are a great way to get started using Rails. I want you to go through the first guide [Getting Started with Rails](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html). Take some time to read it all through, even though you may not understand all the terminology. I also want you to type every line of code you see, DO NOT copy and paste.

NOTE: Guides are not perfect or complete, they are a place to get started and an important reference.

When you're done with the guide, submit the link to the repo AND answer the following questions.

##### Questions

  1. What line of code do you need to change the Rails Welcome Aboard page? In what file do we put this code?

  2. What paths are generated by the following code: `resources :articles` ?

  3. What line of code do you need to fix the following error: ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesError ? Which file? Why?

  4. Provide one example of a refactoring techinque using partials. Include the partial file name, the code inside the partial, and the code used to display that partial.

## Moving Forward

When you finish the fist guide, or feel that you need to go over advanced topics, read through the following guides. If you finish one, move on to the next, DO NOT stop!

Submit answers to the respective questions.

If you are working on a project, practice by applying the concepts you learn in that project.

### Models

#### [Active Record Basics](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_basics.html)

##### Questions

  1. What kind of abilities does Active Record grant us? What does it simplify?

  2. Give me an example of a naming convention in Rails. How does Rails use this to make the development problem easier? How would you override this?

  3. What is a validation? How do you use one and why is it important?

#### [Active Record Associations](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html)

##### Questions

  1. What are a few examples of the type of associations you can declare in Rails? Explain why you would use one of these associations. Include specific examples of what the code would look like.

  2. What are two ways of declaring many to many relationships? Why would you use one over another?

  3. How do you make sure that when you delete an object, all of its dependents will be destroyed as well? For example: Assuming the correct association, if we delete a Customer, we want to make sure his orders are delted.

  4. Let's say we have orders belonging to customers. Our Customer can either be 'active' or 'inactive'. What option can we pass our association so that we only pull the active customers? Bonus: Why would you want to use a technique like this?

### Views

#### [Action View Overview](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_view_overview.html)

##### Questions

  1. Give an example of a 'template', and a 'layout'. Provide the file path as well as the respective code inside the file.

  2. What is a 'partial' and why would you use one? Provide an example file path and file name. Give an example of how you would call it within a template.

  3. What are the two types of form helpers and how do they differ?

### Controllers

#### [Action Controller Overview](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html)

##### Questions

  1. What is a controller? What is an action? How are they related? How are they used in a Rails app?

  2. What two keys will always be included in the `params` hash?

  3. How can you store cookies on the client? Provide example code.

  4. Give an example of some code you might want to include in your Application Controller.

#### [Rails Routing from the Outside In](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/routing.html)

##### Questions

  1. What paths are automatically generated when using `resources :users` ?

  2. Provide two ways you can see your routes. I don't mean the config/routes.rb file. How can you see the associated HTTP verb, the path, the controller#action, and the url_helper for each route in your application?

  3. How do you set the root of your application?

  4. How can you customize your routes?

  5. How can you limit the format of what gets entered into the ':id' parameter of the following path: '/products/:id' ?
